# Chest-X-ray-DL
Our DL 289G Project

In this project, a team of four members in the deep learning course is implementing deep learning techniques in the Chest X-ray exam to accurately diagnose patients with the state-of-the-art technology. With this examination, doctors can cure and diagnose patients with ease and also discover a potential disease that the patient did not realize. However, due to the 2-dimensional aspect of the X-ray examination, sometimes it is believed to be harder than diagnosis via Chest Computed Tomography (CT)  imaging where the CT is in three-dimensional. To alleviate some of the technical challenges, the proposed project aims to integrate relevant computer-aided detection and diagnosis techniques that are pre-installed in the deep learning computer vision library written and used in Python. In order to accomplish this technique, using medical data sites such as Kaggle.com for gathering data was important and foremost, the team has discovered several datasets to accurately accumulate and employ datasets for test validation and train datasets. By implementing this way, the team was able to detect respiratory diseases without the need of the medical team and the deep learning model the team built will accommodate many future patients easily.  Thousands of images will be needed to train the model and with the datasets and more training, the deep learning project the team built will eventually improve over time. Therefore, we expect the dataset is significantly more representative of the real patient population distributions and more importantly, we expect that the deep neural network training will facilitate gathering the dataset and ease out the challenges that previously encountered. 

Inspired by Kaggle projects and learned from Coursera and Udemy courses.
